I've always thought if we could somehow
just see the germs around us everyone
would be a lot more careful and we get
sick way less unfortunately that's still
not possible so I did the next best
thing by running a day-long experiment
in this third grade classroom I found
this powder called Glo germ and just
like real germs when it's on your hands
you can't see it but unlike real germs
if you turn a black light on it becomes
visible but it transfers to things
you've touched so provides a really good
way to visualize exactly how germs
spread so before the kids arrived as a
control I went around and noted any
pre-existing spots in the room that
fluoresced under the blacklight and then
it was go time because of course had no
idea what we were doing and that the
teacher had been secretly infected with
the glowing powder so she randomly shook
the hands of three kids but didn't touch
any of the rest and so with that they
just went about their normal day at
break I did choose one random student
and he agreed to let me put some of the
powder on his hands too and then two
hours later at lunchtime I checked the
results remember everything you see here
started with just the teacher and one
student having a little of that powder
on their hands and because my flashlight
can only illuminate one spot at a time I
use Photoshop to better visualize our
observations of where germs were left
behind
including on the other kids and they
were actually pretty diligent about
washing their hands
this was the desk of the kid that was
infected and what's crazy is that germs
could live on a hard surface like this
for up to nine days and so you can see
how important it is to disinfect the
things a sick person regularly touches
for example this was the phone of the
teacher in the experiment even if you
wash your hands really often if you
immediately pull out your phone a lot of
those germs just go right back on your
hands think about when the last time was
that you cleaned your phone
my friend Joanne at The Wall Street
Journal recently demonstrated you can
clean your phone with an antibacterial
wipe every day for at least a year and
it doesn't affect the oleophobic coating
at all and this hopefully gives you a
better mental model of why it's really
important to wash your hands or use hand
sanitizer after being at places like
this or this
or this or this cleaning commonly touch
services is important because even if a
virus is spread through airborne
transmission those tiny droplets don't
stay in the air for long then they land
on surfaces waiting to be touched by our
hands which raises an important point
the ultimate defence against catching a
virus is just don't touch your face your
eyes nose and mouth are like the single
weak spot on the Death Star when it
comes to viruses that's the only way
they can get in to infect you but as you
can see here not touching your face is
easier said than done and before you
think yeah well that's just kids for you
this was what the teachers face look
like at the end of the day and she said
she tried extra hard to remember not to
touch her face
I found this result fascinating so I put
the powder on my own hands for a few
hours and I resisted the urge to touch
my face so many times that I fully
expected I was going to have a perfectly
clean face and the moral high ground and
then this is what I saw I genuinely have
no idea when any of this came on until I
reviewed the footage Wow well there you
go
on average we touch our face 16 times an
hour which is why washing hands is so
important it's impossible to catch a
virus directly through your hands it's
as futile as shooting the outer surface
of the Death Star the problem is we use
our hands to help the virus out by
constantly giving it a ride to our
figurative Deathstar exhaust ports
because of this I ran another experiment
with some of the kids after lunch first
I had them put some lotion on their
hands that also glows under a blacklight
but then I told them I made a mistake
and use the wrong lotion can you guys
just wash go wash your hands real quick
I do a good washing right yeah do the
right washing okay I just tricked you
guys again because what I really wanted
to do is test how good you are at
washing your hands so guess what I'm
gonna do now show me your hands but
before I show you how effective they
actually were at washing their hands
here's what you should quickly know
about viruses they are super tiny but
also the most abundant biological entity
on the planet in fact there's over 10
million viruses in any single drop of
seawater and a lot of types of viruses
are beneficial to the planet's ecosystem
and only an insanely tiny percentage
affect humans at all and they're really
simple
viruses are basically a shell with some
DNA inside and they just want to spread
and duplicate that's their only goal but
they're so simple that they need a host
to do that so they reproduce by
infecting their host cells and then
trick them to become factories that just
make more exact copies of the virus when
you get sick and then cough or sneeze or
wipe your nose and then touch a surface
you're putting copies of this virus out
to find other hosts and just repeat the
process and so here's what the kids
hands look like after washing their
hands we'll sort of have a habitual way
of washing our hands so once again I
tried this myself using the typical
quick way I do it in my muscle memory
granted that's better than nothing but
you could see the difference compared to
when I was deliberate and took 20
seconds which is why it helps to do
things like sing the Happy Birthday song
twice or you could do what I do and
follow Brandon Flowers example and then
for a final experiment I wanted to show
how dumb hand shaking is so I infected
the first kid with the powder and then
had them do a handshake chain down the
line the fifth person here still had
significant traces on their
and so I put him at the first in line
for more kids up after him and three of
their hands glowed so we got trace germs
from the original person all the way
down eight handshakes later so if you
ever meet me in real life please don't
be offended if in lieu of a handshake I
offer you a fist bump and a selfie in
conclusion what does this all mean with
regards to the corona virus Cova 19 you
should be concerned to take this
seriously but regardless of what you see
in the coming weeks there's absolutely
no need to panic as I'm sure you've
heard a bunch by now our goal is to
flatten the curve so the reported cases
stay just under the capacity of the
healthcare system and social distancing
is the best knob that we can turn to
affect that the reason this helps should
hopefully make more sense after watching
this video especially for those who have
been doubting the science and feeling
like this is an extreme reaction
I might take here is I'm a practical
optimist website is while this virus is
bad it could be way worse and this gives
us a chance as a global community to get
some systems and methods in place to
handle something potentially even more
drastic in the future also maybe it will
lead to changing some social norms like
replacing handshakes with fist bumps or
when people are really sick thinking
it's okay to mingle about and go to work
globally the normal flu kills anywhere
from a quarter to a half a million
people a year due in large part to
people not practicing good germ hygiene
so if this experience makes people more
socially aware of the right precautions
to take when they get sick that will
save countless lives for years to come
long after this coronaviruses old news
I make no mistake this is gonna be rough
for some more than others but history
has shown that us humans are pretty
resilient these types of things can
bring out the worst in us but they can
also bring out the best most wholesome
parts of us like these Italians
practicing their social distancing with
an impromptu balcony concert
how we feel about the situation is
largely dependent on just which part we
choose to focus on for me that means
being grateful to the heroes in our
healthcare system or the school lunch
ladies still providing free lunch for
kids who depend on them or the
scientists all over the world who are
working tirelessly seven days a week to
create better testing methods in a
vaccine there's gonna be a bumpy ride
for us but the economy will eventually
bounce back as it always does and we'll
be better off as a global community for
having gone through this again take this
seriously but there's absolutely no need
to panic we totally got this
well I just so happen to be filming at
their school the principal came over the
PA to make an announcement that kid at
the end is just an opportunist in fact a
common thread you'll see with successful
people is they treat their trials and
challenges as opportunities for growth
and while these are difficult times now
that our schedules have been totally
cleared we have potentially a
once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to invest
in ourselves there's no better way to do
this than by joining the online learning
community at Skillshare we'll also
happen to be supporting this video if
you don't know Skillshare offers easy to
follow premium classes with no ads
taught by the experts and they range
from learning CAD like I use for my
builds to baking 101 to graphic design
to learning to paint with watercolor
they have a simple user-friendly class
for pretty much anything you've ever
wanted to learn I'm currently taking a
class on interior design from Emily
Henderson for a cool shop on building
and you should feel confident joining up
for Skillshare yourself because people
who've used my link to sign up from
previous videos have already watched
over 8,000 hours of class plus the first
500 people to use the link of the video
description
get a free two-month trial and given the
current situation at Skillshare we'll
donate a portion of the proceeds from
every new trial to the non profit no Kid
Hungry this is especially critical right
now for kids from food insecure homes
who won't be getting school lunches so
basically everybody wins here once again
the link in the video description to get
your two months free from Skillshare and
then go have fun learning and making
yourself a better human in the process
thanks for watching
[Music]